Downloaded from
YTS.MX
Official YIFY movies site:
- I received a call
about one of my friends
passing away over the weekend
from not being.
like being in a pool
and not knowing how
to swim and drowning.
That's literally
the story behind it.
Mysterex - So I
mean did you know
any more details
regarding how he drowned?
- I just got the bare minimum.
but it's just deep.
it's a deep thing
to think about.
- Oh Layla.
It's your friend Mr. Society.
What will all that
swimming do to your hair?
What will it do to your skin?
Yeah. what the rumours say?
Blacks can't swim.
♪ Thought about it.
thought about it ♪
♪ I thought about it.
♪ Thought about it.
thought about it ♪
♪ I thought about it.
♪ No. no. no. no ♪
♪ Thought about it.
thought about it ♪
- So how was your holiday?
- Oh my God.
It was amazing.
We had our own private waiter.
We had our own swimming pool.
It was amazing.
- Private waiter
and swimming pool?
- Yeah I just rang the
bell and he came running.
- Is that all you guys
talk about. holiday?
There's something in life
to talk about you know.
- Like what?
- Like music. car
shows. fashion.
Is that Gucci?
- Yeah. that's a Gucci.
- I should have worn
my Gucci life jacket.
we could have matched.
- Talking about life jacket.
so how'd you get
on with swimming?
- Yeah.
So it's going quite well.
It's going pretty well.
I was having problems with
the breathing part of it
but other than that. It's
going really. really well.
And I just can't believe
that it's taking me this long
to actually even consider
learning how to swim.
So yeah. I was standing behind
them. behind the stereotype.
the stigmas and the myths.
And you guys are
pretty instrumental.
And you're one of
the triggers actually
in getting me into
actually learn how to swim.
Do you remember the last
time we had the conversation
and I had a life jacket on
and you say that. if
my daughter can swim.
everyone can swim.
And that's one of the things
that pushed me to yeah.
Can I just. I'll take this call.
Sorry about this.
- Wow. he's learnt to swim.
- Yeah.
Especially how we know how
difficult it was for him. right.
- Oh. sorry about that.
I had to find a quieter place.
So yeah.
So this is Frank
So who's speaking.
- My name is Ettiene
from Azutan Empowerment.
- How can I help you?
- I have two young people
who have been working
with for some time.
They both have issues that
remind me of your story.
They're both
bright. intelligent.
and have the potential
to move forward in life.
I have recently received
funding for a project
which includes swimming.
But no matter what I try to do.
something is holding them
back from taking part.
I was wondering if you can
come and have a conversation
and chat with them.
- Okay. yeah. I would love to.
Well you obviously. you've
obviously had about my journey
and all that kind of thing.
So yes. anything. any
assistance I can help.
I can lend to anybody
else learning how to swim
and there'll be.
yeah. I'd love to.
- Well actually that
is not the problem.
They both know how to swim.
- So how can I help then?
- Well. I think it's
best if you come down
and you can chat
with them further
and then you understand
the situation more.
- Well. you've got my number
anyway. so text me the address
and let's schedule a
time and I'll after work.
I'll pop around then see if
I can have a conversation
with them and get to the
bottom of what this issue is.
- Okay. thank you.
It was nice to
speak to you. Frank.
- Nice speaking to you.
All right. speak to
you in a bit. cheers.
Bye.
- So I hear you got a new car.
- Yeah. it might need new tyres.
- How many miles
have you done it?
- About 15.000.
- 15?
- Yeah.
- You've only had like what?
- October.
- Wow.
- Sorry about that guys.
That was a really.
really strange call.
So this guy Ettiene.
said he heard my journey.
my swimming journey.
And which is strange
because we're just
talking about swimming.
And he says. yeah.
he runs a programme
for disadvantaged children.
And one of the programmes that.
one of the things that
you have to do is swim.
And he's got these
two young adults
that just don't wanna
get in the water.
The strange thing is that
he says they can swim
but they just don't want to.
So I'm gonna go
see them next week.
I'm gonna see if I can. he
wants me to mentor them.
So it's
So I'm gonna see them and
see what it's all about.
- My mom is a very. very
strongly African-Nigerian woman.
But we live in a
predominantly white area.
So I went to a predominantly
white school as well.
In primary school.
I was like the only
Black person in my year.
And I didn't start off swimming.
I didn't know how
to swim at first.
but then I think it
was around year two.
So that's like around seven-ish.
We started having
swimming lessons
as part of the
national curriculum.
And yeah. I wasn't able to swim.
I was a lot behind.
I was a lot more behind
than the rest of the group
- When I was younger.
on my birthday as well.
I went to a swimming pool
and like they had
the blow up slides
and all of that in there.
And I nearly drowned
in the deep end.
And since that day I've
just been traumatised.
So like. I go back in
the water and stuff like.
I'm not traumatised to a point
where I don't wanna
even think about water.
but when I'm in there.
it's like my heart
is just. I'm anxious.
I'm so anxious.
- So last time I went
swimming was in Florida.
literally a year ago.
And they went to the beach
and I didn't want to swim
because of my hair. but
- So my dad. every
year we go on holiday
and he goes snorkeling
under water in the sea.
And sometimes he
goes out quite far.
but I'd only go out to
where the little fishes.
I normally would go
to where they are
but I wouldn't go
as far as he goes.
- No way. I can't swim.
Mainly because I just.
I don't know how to
and I'm never really
tried in a way.
Because I'll be honest.
I wouldn't say I'm scared but.
I just don't like swimming.
It's not my thing.
- Well. we've had
a lot of experience
and that's how we kind
of we know we can't swim.
And this is experience from
we're talking primary school
to all the way to even
now. shame to say.
but even now I
still can't get it.
I guess it's the fear
in water that I have.
I don't know about you.
- Yeah. that's what's weird.
It's not like we've
never had lessons.
'Cause like it was
compulsory in primary school.
but even then we just.
I don't know if we just don't
pick it up or whatever it is.
And it's not that
I don't want to.
- Yeah.
- I'd love to be able
to go on these holidays
and just be kicking the ball
in water doing whatever.
- I think I was
quite determined.
'cause I quite liked the
idea of being able to swim.
Being able to like play in the
water when you go on holiday.
So before I could swim. you'd
go on holiday. it's like.
oh. I can't go
without my arm bands.
You see with these other girls
like going in. swimming freely.
It's like. I can't do that
because I can't swim yet.
So I think it was that
that sort of like drive me
to like go and learn to swim
- From the beginning.
it was primary school.
We used to have
swimming lessons.
that's where it
first started off.
When we're doing the lessons.
I was the one that
couldn't swim in it.
but it was like a few of us.
But like. you know.
we were all Black.
- 'Cause I wanna learn
how to swim myself.
Like I would love to
learn how to swim anyway.
I've went to like in a few
dates with different girls
and I was like. you know.
like most of them
they know how to swim
and I've asked them you know.
can you teach me how to swim?
And that's the thing that shit
is like sounds funny
but I'm serious about it.
I wanna learn how to swim.
Same as all like in the summer.
you gonna learn how
to like ride a bike.
I wanna swim as well. but
I just don't know how to.
- In my head for some reason
I just thought I could swim.
So I just jumped in the water.
not caring like
about anything else.
I jumped in
I just went all the
way to the bottom.
Just like. like an
unveil. like boom.
And I'm just like. the
water just started going in.
And I'm like taking it in.
And then. I think someone
could see the bubbles coming up
or whatever. somebody jumped
in and grabbed me out bro.
like start pushing my chest
down like all the water
is coming out.
I'm like what the
hell just happened?
I just drowned.
- Yes. I've had an experience
where I thought like.
yes. swimming needs
to be learned.
I remember it was. I was
a lot younger in a camp.
I went to a camp with
a few of my friends
and they had this like total
wipe out kind of course.
So I remember climbing
up these ladders
and I had to slide down a slide
and then swim to the canoes
and I'd remember
just sliding down.
It was all fun and games
until I hit that water.
And I just went in and I
remember gulping so much
cause I've never been
in water like that.
So I just remember gulping and
gulping and it was freezing.
And you know that whole thing
about when your body hits water
and you're just gasping for air.
So it was something.
it was like.
I remember just
gasping and struggling
to swim back to this canoe.
♪ Smokey boy baby ♪
♪ Chop. chop my money ♪
♪ I go make you Koko
Belo. Koko Belo ♪
♪ I can buy you motor ♪
♪ My people in the street.
that's just how we de go ♪
♪ We don't tire ♪
♪ Tire. tire ♪
♪ But we go higher ♪
♪ Higher. higher ♪
♪ We don't tire ♪
♪ Tire. tire ♪
♪ But we go higher ♪
♪ Every other day
we can celebrate ♪
♪ Roll up to the
scene. don't hesitate ♪
- All right.
This tune is fire fam.
When this shit touches
the road it's gone fam.
We back on top again fam.
Come on. I just need the
hook for it and it's gone.
What else are we
waiting for fam?
- I know. but I got to go meet
Ettiene in an hour though.
- What. why are you wasting
time going there for bro?
Finish the beat fam.
I need finished tunes to
send to the radio fam.
- Trust me. bro.
Ettiene is a kind person.
He promised to help me with
a couple of things though.
- What?
Help you with what fam?
That swimming thing fam?
Allow it bro.
- Bro. I don't even
want to swim myself.
but it's part of
the whole project.
- Bro. just concentrate
on the music fam
and we'll be back fam for
that swimming thing fam.
just don't go near water bro.
You'll be good fam.
That's a white man's
thing anyway fam.
- My man said it's a white mans.
- Wait. what can
you even swim fam?
- A bit fam.
- Why are you lying for bro?
- I'm not lying. bro.
- Fam. have you ever swam
in a pool or the sea fam?
- A bit.
- Why are you lying for bro?
- Why are you always on me bro?
- Bro. Mo just allow him in it.
Yow Frost. go do your thing
and I will shout you later.
- Hit me up. swimming
man. swimming thing.
♪ Sitting by the pool.
feeling so cool ♪
♪ Splash. splash. splash ♪
♪ They say blacks can't swim ♪
- Hello Simon.
It's your friend. Mr Society.
Swimming?
You'll drown.
We don't want that. do we?
Listen to your friend
Mo. he knows the score.
Blacks can't swim.
- I was born with a condition
called tibial hemimelia.
which basically around my
fibula bone. all my tibia.
So one leg is shorter
than the other
and I have a prosthetic leg
but I don't really pay
attention to none of that.
I just live my life normal.
Just doing what next
man does really.
And pretty much.
yeah there's some
things that I can do
and there's somethings that.
because of this I can't.
even when I try and
push it. I can't do.
So swimming. I'm still
gonna try eventually.
but it's one of them ones where.
it's gonna be hard 'cause
I have to use both legs.
I'm only using one.
- I definitely remember
trying to conform
and trying to do my best to
catch up as fast as I could
so that I could jump
in the deep end.
But I had also a deep.
almost innate fear of water.
So when I would have to jump
in and stuff into the deep end.
I would be the longest one.
I'd be last because it would
take me about 20 minutes
to rack up the nerve
to actually jump in
- Because I have sickle
cell anaemia myself.
I used to be so apprehensive
about getting in pools
and like. yeah the way
it affects my body.
sometimes just the
temperature of the water
can put me completely off
or send me into what we
call a sickle cell crisis.
That's where my body just
basically shuts down.
And it's in pain
stations. pain stations.
Red alert. red alert.
So. but the majority of the
time I swim. it soothes.
Let's say. unless I
feel like it's too cold.
And then I just
start shivering up
and I just like
start stiffening.
like it soothes.
There's a soothing feeling
that comes with swimming.
- Swimming is back at the
priority list for black people
because I think it's just
been advertised so much
that black people can't swim.
So like. it's like
misleading the mind thinking
that we can't swim.
So I think that's
what it is like.
And then with like
all the experiences
that they've had as well
like for example. myself.
it just leads me think.
yeah like we can't really.
it's not built. we're
not built for that
or something like that.
You look at. look
at the Olympics.
like it's only. it's
maybe only one black guy
I've ever seen swimming and
I was laughing when I saw it.
I was like. dude why
are you swimming?
That's not your thing bro.
- I feel like the
attention span of people
as the generations pass
it kind of diminishes.
So the way for older
generational could easily
have been attracted to
and got into swimming.
isn't the same way the younger
generation will be attracted
and get into it because
there's so many other things
for them now to focus on
where they'll start
now thinking. feeling.
that there's a tier list
of the essential skills.
And then regarding what
they might personally do
within their own lives.
they might not have it
on such a high necessity.
- Yes. and not seeing
it as a priority.
I think that's a massive thing.
I think that unless you
live either live near water
or live on a boat that
there's no real reason
to learn how to swim and if
you're never introduced to it
it's just not something
you think about.
And I think it's not
something people miss out on.
And a lot of the times
I don't think it affects people
unless they do or
exposed to water.
which I think that's a choice.
I don't think you have
to be exposed to water
if you don't want to.
- The last time I swam.
was probably about
three four months ago.
Tell a lie. it was actually
about six months ago.
And it was only because me and
my partner went to like a spa
or something and it
was a swimming pool.
And I didn't ever
wanna go in the water
but she she's like. ain't
you gonna go in the water?
Ain't you gonna go in the water.
So I went in there
for a little bit
and I just felt like
I was gonna drown.
So I wasn't even in
there for too long.
Like my swimming skills
are not really too strong.
as I said so.
I was in there trying to swim
but the water is in my mouth
and in my nose and all sorts
- And I remember I went to
Greece one time with like
with the team and like one
of the guys aunties was there
and she was. I'm gonna
teach her how to swim.
And like. it was just
in the little part.
and I learned how to just
do little basic things
and it was all fun and then.
but then like another
future instance.
we did like kayaking.
- Yeah.
- And then our boat turned
over and we were in the water.
And then in that moment.
it's not like you
just think. oh yeah.
this is what I did then.
it just. everything goes away.
And the only thing
I think of is.
I don't want to
be here right now.
- Kinda of panic.
- I do want to learn
'cause I want to travel.
I wanna. again it's
something I want
but then I don't know how
to naturalise it like.
- Yeah.
- It was interesting because
from the changing room.
I think things are different.
When you're Black and
you're in a situation
with mostly White people
you already know all the
ways that you're different.
You already know the ways that.
the things don't.
aren't the same.
And it's like even being
in the changing rooms
and not having lotion.
coming out with your skin dry
or getting your hair wet
and not wanting your
hair to get wet.
And we'd always have fun
after the swimming lesson.
And you know. we were allowed
to play however we wanted
and my friends were
trying to splash
and I'd be like. don't
get water on my head
when they could never
really understand that.
- So when are you
gonna get ready?
- I'm literally just
gonna do my hair.
Maybe put a little
bit of makeup on.
Sometimes I wish I was a boy
I could just like
roll out of bed.
- Hell no.
Speaking of boys. you
still got that buff thing
coming around later?
- Who. Clayton?
Sorry girl. go on.
- Literally gonna chill. probably
make himself that nice to eat.
- Girl. you better make sure
that chicken seasoned good boy.
- You're a joker.
- So what. has he seen
like your bits yet?
- What do you mean?
- Come on.
Don't play innocent.
It's been a few months still.
you must've shown him
something at least.
- Well. usually we have
the lights down low
- Still. so you gonna go to
that swimming thing then.
Were you gonna tell that.
what's that guys name again?
Who. Ettiene?
- Yeah. what are you
gonna say to him?
- Would you go?
- What?
Go for the swimming event?
- Yeah. would you go?
- Do you know what?
I don't care.
I'll go if you go.
So what. you're gonna go?
- It is what it is.
I'll probably just gas
him up like last time.
- Ettiene is not gonna be happy.
- Boy. I can't lie. I'm
gonna shout you later.
- All right girl then laters.
- I do remember
being a young kid
and I got an uncle Mike
is like a military uncle.
He always takes you out.
little days out your
cousins and stuff.
And like. when I wasn't
good at swimming.
he's just like chuck
him in the deep end.
And that's how he
taught you how to swim.
He will just chuck
you in the deep end.
you panic about
but you'd catch it.
And then once you caught
it. you were like. yeah
I kind of learned how
to keep myself afloat.
Doggy paddling.
doing your thing.
And then that's how I basically.
I learned I remember being like
that was a good way to
teach me. it was just like
- I can recall back to probably
when I was like six. five.
My daddy used to take me
and my older brother
swimming in Brixton.
And that kind of
built my confidence.
And then when we
went with school.
I was always kind
of ahead of everyone
'cause I kind of
had that experience.
And then I lost touch.
I don't know what happened.
but I just couldn't swim.
And I went South
Norwood Leisure Centre.
I remember with my
cousins and I drowned.
And they saved me and after
that it kinda hold on.
how did I lose
the drive to swim?
And I went back and it
came back after some time.
- I did swimming lessons.
So obviously I was
in a public pool.
like loads of other children.
So I just. I don't know.
It was fun.
I mean. obviously like
in the first lesson
I was a bit scared.
but I guess everyone's
scared on they're first try
but like gradually I just
found it like really fun.
Like wanted to go
- So the first time I
went to a swimming pool.
this was back in
2006. maybe seven.
So this was year three
in my primary school.
we went to a leisure centre.
which had a swimming pool.
And pretty much the
first time I went in.
well I run into.
I actually jumped
into the deep end
without knowing
it was a deep end.
And this is the first time
I've ever swam in my life.
And obviously that's a big jump.
So then I started
drowning but it was like.
it was weird because
people were looking
but I was at a place where
they could obviously reach out
and grab me before
I went down too low.
And I came back
up. I was confused.
I was like. nah. it's not
like what I saw on TV.
- When I went to
secondary school.
I went to swimming
lessons as well again.
And then that's when I
learned to like start swimming
but I still couldn't float.
I still needed those
puddles on everything.
So I just thought like.
I see Black people
actually swimming
like in those classes in it.
And I was still like the
only one that couldn't swim
so I felt it was
just me in it so.
- I was always that
kid in the school
that was always at the kinda
end of the swimming class
- 'Cause you had levels.
- You have levels.
- So it's like the tad
pods. the dolphins.
the sharks and the mermaids.
- Yeah. exactly.
I was. I never progressed
into the dolphins.
You have to have like
the floating thing.
- Yeah.
- Like that little puddle.
- Yeah. I was always
maybe from five to like 10.
I was always in
the same position.
And going into high school.
when you go on
these school trips.
we have to swim even
with a life jacket on.
I still have that kind of fear
like my feet aren't
touching the ground.
My feet aren't
I'm gonna die.
You know what I'm saying?
I have to. it takes me
a good 15-20 minutes
then I'm like. okay. I'm cool.
I'm settled.
♪ You just waste my time ♪
♪ I don't pay no mind no ♪
♪ Ed Accura in the house ♪
♪ Time is now ♪
♪ Let's change the narrative ♪
- Hello.
- Hello. it's Frank.
to see Ettiene.
- Hello Frank. come on in.
♪ You just waste my time ♪
♪ I don't pay no mind no. ♪
♪ Won't swim it's too cold ♪
♪ Won't swim it's too deep ♪
♪ Won't swim it's too wet ♪
♪ I'm so Black. I'm so Black ♪
- Really like what you're
doing here with these kids.
How's it all funded?
- Thank you. we can only try.
With such little resources.
it's difficult to get funding.
We're relying a lot on donations
and favours but we manage.
What we're doing now is
giving kids the opportunity
to get involved in
different activities
over the course of three
months. which includes swimming.
- So how do you want me
to get involved in this?
- Well. we used to
have a swimming event
before Called Swim
Ting. which was good.
but two members have
not been taking part.
- So these are the two that
are meeting here today.
- Yes.
These are two teenagers who
are part of the programme.
Layla and Simon aka K Frost.
who likes to be referred
by it's artist name.
- A musician.
- Yes.
He loves his music and Layla
loves recreation activities
like camping and traveling.
- So you said they
both can swim.
- Correct.
- So in that case.
what am I doing here?
- Layla. I thought I
asked you to come alone.
You know we're going
to be having a meeting.
- We going somewhere after.
can't she just sit here?
You gonna have to go.
- I'd like to introduce
you to Layla. Frank.
- Hi. Layla.
- Can you put your
phone away please?
Sorry Frank.
It's okay. it's cool.
- Oh. just in time. we're
about to start the meeting.
Frank. this is Simon.
I mean K Frost.
Frost this is Frank
who I told you about.
- Hey. what time
is this finishing?
- Please show some respect.
You've only just got here.
Shouldn't take longer
than half an hour.
So Frank has come here to
tell us about his experiences
and how he overcame
his fears in water.
And hopefully through this
we can maybe shed some light
on both of your issues.
- Do we need to talk about it?
- Yes. we do.
That's what we agreed.
I would help you with
your goals and dreams
and you will take
part in the programme.
- But we're doing.
the programme.
- And that means
all of the programme
and that includes swimming.
So Frank is going to talk
about his experiences
and then we're going
to have a conversation.
Okay?
- Man this heat though.
- Mad hot today.
I know I'm telling you. these
bugs are getting on my nerves.
- Kinda like Jamaica
- It's really. really
hot can be dealing.
Really hard at the same time.
I need to get my hair done.
- Word.
What are you trynna do with it?
- I have no clue.
I need help.
No clue whatsoever.
- You trynna do.
front or leave out.
- I was thinking
like a box braids.
- Box braids.
I'm telling you it's
probably be box braids.
Having it up in one.
Feel the wind going
through if we get any wind.
Like have you decided what
you're gonna do with your hair?
- I think. I'm thinking
of getting it twisted
or I'm not sure if I should
just do straight locs.
- Why. you on on some thing
with 'em locs boy?
- No.
You know what it is that
I really wanna do it
but it's just a
process. it's just long.
- Why. is it hard to
maintain or something?
- Yeah. definitely.
You have to always get it done
or make sure that
it don't get wet.
- No that's just long.
So what was the
meeting about then?
- Just some Frank guy
talking about how he overcome
his fear of swimming.
- So what. is he trying
to teach you how to swim?
That's long.
- I know. right?
- I don't see what's so
special about swimming.
He needs allow it.
And I just told you
about my hair and ting.
- Damn. did you tell
him about the ting?
- No.
That's none of his business.
- So I don't think
Etienne is gonna be happy
if you miss the
swimming workshop again.
- I know. but we
come to an agreement
that I'll speak to
Frank over the phone.
but I got my own plans.
- I hear you.
- Issues regarding. hair.
and what not for swimming
is rife amongst our community.
- Because I asked my
friend if we'd go swimming
a couple weeks ago.
And she was like.
hell no. my hair.
I don't want it to get wet.
It's long to maintain.
- Well. I used to wear
swimming cap in school.
Like the school swimming
lessons that was compulsory.
That's why a swimming cap.
Then after a while it was
like your hair still gets wet.
it doesn't really do much.
But then the private
swimming lessons.
I wasn't wearing swimming cap.
You just had to wash your
hair like straight afterwards.
Make sure you bring
your products with you.
And yeah
- I used to have
like short hair.
So it would've been
just combing it.
Like you just wash it.
Like. it just it's like just
coming out of the shower.
It's just normal for us in it.
But yeah. it's a whole lot
different for Black women.
But like say if I had
hair like this now.
like and I went to go swim.
I wouldn't be able to do it.
Cause they would
mess up my hair.
Like spent time just doing it.
Like the Mumsy. did it
for me and everything.
So I can't let it like.
just like after all that.
keep on redoing it all the time.
- Black girls with braids.
you can't get them wet.
So they wouldn't
go in the water.
Their hair wouldn't fit
in the swimming hat.
So they weren't allowed
to go in the water
without swimming hat.
But I've never
really seen an issue.
I've never had a personal issue.
but I do know a few Black girls
that couldn't have
their hair in braids
because they had to go. they
had to do swimming lessons.
which I don't know if
that's a bad thing or not
because you know. if it's
part of the school curriculum.
it's something you've got to do.
But I do understand
why it'd be annoying
to not have your hair. like
be able to have your hair
how you want to have it.
- I would say with swimming
and my hair probably my mom.
she'd always tell me.
don't get your hair wet
when you go swimming.
But I feel like it was
inevitable actually.
I would try everything.
Every single cap. my
hair will still get wet.
I feel like it was the
effects of the chlorine
in like natural hair.
Well I just liked swimming
so much. I will still swim.
- The whole process
of drying it. yeah.
- Yeah.
- But I feel like that
can also be used to.
I use that as an excuse a lot.
That was gonna go like.
ah. guys I'll sit this one out.
my hair I don't want
it to get too wet.
And then yeah. the
whole process but.
- To moisturise
it has to come up.
- Yeah I have to moisturise
- And white people
don't get that.
They think you just dip
in and then you leave.
They don't know we have a
whole half an hour there.
Itching inside. getting the
sand out of you and all of that.
- Definitely.
- I guess for me an advantage
is I come from Eritrea.
my hair texture is a bit different.
although I am African.
It's a lot more
easy to maintain.
So for me. it's that
it's not a big deal.
I'll go ahead and wash it.
But for some other people.
their hair texture might be
very hard for them to control.
So it's like is me
swimming in the pool
for an hour worth of stress
I have to go through?
- You really have to
want to go to swim
if you're willing to
go through all of that.
And I don't think most
people are into the idea.
- Yow Sayso. mans on the
way back to the studio bro.
This swimming thing
is just so long bro.
Just to let you know
I'm really serious
about this music thing.
Forget that swimming thing bro.
- Fam. why'd you keep complaining. just
do the thing. bro.
- Why do I need swimming bro?
For real. why do
I need swimming?
- You got to look at it
in that positive way fam.
Stop looking in
the other way fam.
Can you swim?
- I'm not
gonna lie to you fam but
A bit.
- A bit.
- I don't believe you. but
anyway. it's a life skill in it.
So make sure you get that done
before you worry
about the music.
- Yeah. yeah. yeah.
I hear you. I hear you.
I'll link you back
in the studio though.
my bus is about to come
I'll leave you
back in the studio.
- Cool.
- Last year or two years ago.
I was having a
conversation with my aunt
and she was saying how there
are areas in Nigeria in Lagos
where kids swim. it's
water-based country
and well not country but
certain parts of the land.
You've got a lot of water
and the kids will swim
from a young age.
And I think part of the
problem is we never see that.
We don't really know that
Black kids can grow up
and water rule their life.
It's almost this thing
that we're introduced
to a certain age and
its like. trust issues.
- I don't know any like
role models that swim
and that's the thing as well.
If there was role models for
black people. it will be there.
Once again. like basketball.
we've got the likes of
the Jordan. Kobe. Lebron.
Football. Pele.
players like Pogba
and swimming there's no one. so.
- I feel like there's
a lot of things
that could make swimming more
relatable to Black people.
especially in the market.
You're talking about. see like
for us basketball. football.
These are things that we can
do literally in our gardens.
out on the street you
know what I'm saying?
So I feel like.
especially in the UK.
you've got so many things
like forgetting sport.
you've got music and stuff that
a lot of black youth go to.
After school we're doing
this. not many say swimming.
I feel like. even just
an adverts and stuff
like I feel like they
could be using more kind of
like Black models to.
Yeah. yeah so like.
when you're a kid.
you look up to
that person and go.
oh. there's a Black
person swimming.
I wanna do that too.
- It's crazy.
It's all about influence.
Like you'll actually
be surprised.
If one of the biggest
rappers in the UK right now
said this. sorry.
But you know. I wanna
do a big swimming.
he's gonna have the audience
follow him. do you get it?
- Just like more.
like a better representation
of Black swimmers.
Like I've never heard of
the lady in the Olympics
that's gonna compete next year.
I've never heard of her.
But knowing that she
is a Black person
that's going to be
competing in the Olympics.
I can just imagine kids
will be seeing that.
And they will see
themselves in her.
So that will inspire them
to get into the whole.
the sports of it all.
- I can't believe Frank. you
got that stupid life jacket
and learned how to swim.
- But we were walking down
the streets. look like a prat.
It got to a point
whereby I couldn't do it.
I just had to. I just
had to give it up
and actually learn how to swim.
Yeah.
It's a shame it took
me so long though.
- And even though he
suffered from aquaphobia.
he still buy a
house by the river.
- That's how we roll.
This is how we roll.
Yeah.
I saw the house. liked it.
Even think about the whole
issue of the river and yeah.
But it's never been a problem.
So that's cool.
But you can swim. can you?
- No. I just didn't
bother to learn.
I had a bad experience
when I was younger.
Went to the pool with the
boys and like it is here now.
everyone jumped in.
I jumped in as well. went
straight to the bottom.
Managed to climb myself back up
and I thought. you know what?
This is not for me.
Changed my clothes and I went.
- Would you learn?
- Yeah. now that I
see what you're doing.
you might entice me to learn.
- Cool. cool.
So I've actually created a word
called the "Bl-aquaphobia".
- Wow.
Is that even a word Frank?
- I thought that word
originally existed
but I checked on
Google to everywhere.
There's nothing such as.
so I created the word.
bla-aquaphobia. as
in B L as in black.
then aquaphobia add to it.
- Well. Wikipedia here I come.
I would patent
that if I were you?
- I have. I have.
- Do you actually
get in the river?
- I've been there
a couple of times.
When I first moved in here.
the neighbours came around and
said we're cleaning the river.
So do you wanna join us all?
Yeah.
But it's not that deep anyway.
Still only just
up to about here.
- Looks great actually
guys. should we dive in now?
- Hell no. you've
got to be joking.
- Frank what's the
trigger for you
to learn how to swim
at the first place?
- My daughter.
It got to a point
whereby I said to myself
that if she ever was
in difficulty in water.
here. on holiday or anyway.
and I couldn't help her.
I don't think I would
ever forgive myself.
So as a responsible parent.
I thought the best thing to do
is actually learn how to swim.
- Yes. that's probably
wise actually Frank.
- It's the least I can
do that as a parent.
I've been even asked to
mentor these two kids.
well young adults.
But I probably
difficulty with them
because it's really strange
because they don't wanna swim.
they don't wanna
get into the water.
And part of the
programme that they are.
this is under.
means that they have to
actually learn how to swim
or actually swim.
But they can swim but
they just don't wanna
get into the water.
And I find that very strange.
Every time I asked them.
the young lady in particular
she says it's private.
So I don't understand why
but I'm sure at some
point I'll find out.
- Amazing Frank.
I'm quite actually amazed.
You've gone from a aquaphobic
to mentoring teenagers
on how to swim.
- Well. I'm the perfect
person to do such a thing
because obviously
I couldn't swim.
So they. I was hoping that
they could relate to me more
because I was in their
situation a few years back.
- I am also sure Frank.
with teenagers nowadays
they aren't that easy.
- I know. I know.
It's a bit of a
challenge. but hey.
- So they can't swim or they
don't wanna go to the pool?
- And that's the thing.
They say. the guy
who's mentoring them.
whose running the
programme says.
they can swim but they
just don't want to.
And that's the thing
I just don't get.
I just don't get it.
Yeah.
I just. I really don't
understand. I just don't get.
- The reason. the biggest reason
why I haven't continued to swim
is because it's just not
is like no one around
me wants to go swim.
So it's just not. it's just
not an interest to be honest.
It's just really
not an interest.
And not a lot of family
members go swimming.
Like it's never been a
feeling when my mom's like.
look we're going swimming today.
Or my dad's like.
look you going swimming
with your cousins
or something like that.
So it's just never been
an interest really.
- It's like nine to five.
like road man don't find nine
to five appealing at all.
But yeah. you would
do what you do.
And one day you
might not make money
and the next day you might.
but it's like. would you
want to take that risk
or would you rather not
work every single day.
when you're gonna
get a pay slip.
but then but it's the mindset
is I don't wanna be looked as
someone that's in a uniform
in a Sainsbury's uniform or.
Do you know what I mean.
that's not the
person that I keep.
And I think that's
where it goes wrong.
There's a lot of black people
that might actually want to swim
but because there's no one else
that actually does it with them.
what's the point?
We don't wanna swim alone.
that's not something you wanna
do. you know what I mean.
- I don't know if it's
but maybe it's even historical.
When you read the things that.
you know the Black
people in the slave boats
and they jumped off
the sides and all that.
and they all drowned.
I mean. just Black people
being an enemy of water
because it was over the
waters we were transferred.
It's was like. minorities
and like immigration crisis.
going on these boats and
you hear the terrible things
that happen where. on the water.
- It's all water.
- And so maybe it's
little things like this
that you see in the
media and that like
that just get passed around
on the internet and stuff
that it's just building
up this thing of. yeah.
That's not where we belong.
- I think people. we always
make jokes and we make remarks.
And to some extent. I'm definitely not
one of those people
but I have seen Black people
make fun of other Black people
for not being able to swim
and making it seem
like something
they should be ashamed about
but that doesn't create an
environment where we can learn.
Simon. Simon. Simon.
What are we to do with you?
Black swimming?
What a load of codswallop.
Don't waste your time.
Don't waste your time Simon.
- Every time I'm coming
to see you right.
It's a process.
I have to go into my
wardrobe and find something
'cause I know that you're one
of the best dressed people
in West London and you
always out shine me.
So I'll always have
to go to my wardrobe
and try and find something
that will not make
me look not too good.
I put this jacket on and you
don't even have your jacket on.
- I was almost tempted
to put on a fancy one
then I thought no. no. no.
I'll ease you up this time.
- So how's things anyway?
- Just steady. just steady.
trying to cope with this
little. the little knockdown.
Getting myself prepared for
when it opens up a little bit.
things are going fine.
- The book.
What's happening in the book?
- Well its going well.
The adventures of
Professor Splash
or "The Swimming
Lesson" which is.
It's going well.
I'm working on a character.
which is Rose Marolda.
swimming teacher
that shouts and screams
and Professors Splash.
sings and dance.
- This is gonna be big you know.
because people have waited
for something since
"Rasta Mouse".
- I've revisited it.
And my plan and my
thoughts are to get it out
at some point by let's
just say March 2021.
- Yeah. yeah. yeah.
Talking about swimming.
I've been mentoring
these two kids.
I wouldn't say kids.
but young adults.
And part of the
programme that they're on
says that they have to swim.
And they just don't
to get in the water.
They just try any excuse.
I thought I was a
master of excuses
before I started
learning how to swim
but that's how. they top me.
They did just not wanna
get into the water
and I just don't
know what to do.
But you been doing
this for years.
You've been teaching for years.
Do you have any tips?
- The way I would
look at it is that.
motivation it's
like anything else.
You have to find
a way to motivate.
If they say that could swim
well. then you'd say. well.
let me see what you can do.
Let me see exactly what
you can do in the water.
So you just go and
because in actual fact.
I dunno what
interest they've got
but you could transfer
any interest into water.
- Yeah.
- Always. always have we
need to deal with things
and do with swimming.
Always have it is a
motivational incentive
because in actual fact.
no matter what they do
they do think don't
always benefit.
There's no payback or such.
There's only benefit.
So it's a world where
you can be in that water
you can be free. is
really. really liberating.
And especially with
a young imagination.
it's amazing what you can
get out of them really.
- Oh yeah.
- So I think if you could
encourage them into the water.
they'll benefit.
- I'll definitely try and
I'll speak to them about that.
So trying to use some
kind of incentive.
I don't wanna say bribery.
I guess incentivize them
into. get into the water.
- And when you do get them in.
Then you give them something
that's gonna excite
and that's gonna stimulate
them. motivate them.
But say. look. anyone
could say they could swim
but the proof of the
pudding. get in the river.
- Yeah.
Children are.
they're challenging.
- It's difficult because
as earlier mentioned
we've got things like
football. basketball.
American football.
all these sports
where it's more
endurance spaced.
Well. swimming is
an endurance sport
but Black people.
we don't tend to swim
like competitive as well.
And if people want to
pursue stuff like that
if a Black person wants to
pursue a swimming career
they can. it's just how
many of them are there
to actually say they're
willing to do that.
to learn and to
actually go out there
and do it and chase
a career in it.
- Yes. I definitely feel like
if there was like more
advertisement towards swimming
and like Black people swimming
and that people would do it more
and it would be
like an enforcement.
So yeah. for like
a really important.
I feel like they should
be advertising on swimming
so that we see and watching
inclined to want to do it.
Because you don't see it.
it's not something
you worry about.
We worry about or feel
like at some point.
- Yeah. I think it is like
the same thing like football.
but like football.
everyone like wants to do
it from like straight up
when you're in school. like
when you're going to activities.
you always wanna play football.
kickball and all of that.
It's like. that's
what England is like.
Us British people
are like. known for.
So like. it's a bit
different for like.
when it comes to swimming.
'cause like not everyone
wants to just go and swim.
Like it's like. it's
a good activity.
Like it's good for
like burning fat.
like losing weight
and all of that.
But like I just don't
see people like wanting
to take part in it.
- And the way to maybe do it
is just to make
it look more cool
and more advertising
to young people.
And even not just promoting
it but installing it
into like our curriculum.
So I was lucky enough
to go to a school
that a primary school.
that brought us to
a swimming pool.
But even secondary schools now.
are they bringing people
to learn how to swim?
'Cause as I just said.
it's a life skill.
- You see like. I don't
know. Michael Phelps.
like. I don't know that.
I don't know any Black
freaking swimmer.
You see what I mean?
So you need one of them
like to be like a high level
and then adverts and stuff
so kids can see it.
- Maybe it's one of them ones
where we just leave one
superstar on the sport as well.
Maybe we need like the Usain
Bolt of the track. in the pool.
You know what I mean?
We need one guy just to
pop up out of nowhere
and just start
slapping gold medals
and just doing his thing.
Do you know what I mean?
And kids be like. oh.
I wanna be like him.
- I don't even know if
it needs to be marketed
but more so just normalised.
It's kind of like. how
you have that problem.
You bring a white
person to the cookout
and you make such a
fun fair about it.
Now it becomes a thing when
really embracing our culture
shouldn't really be a
thing in the first place.
It's just equality for all.
- I feel like swimming
and sports overall
but swimming as well.
it frees your mind.
Start you're in water.
just you know what I mean?
You're. intact to the
earth to a certain extent
but on a deeper level.
And it goes for people
that jog as well.
That people like to jog and
go through parks on purpose
'cause it's nature.
Do you know what I mean. it
makes them feel a bit better.
I feel like it's a distraction
but it's a better destruction.
For example. I've actually
recently been listening
to music only recent.
but I stopped for months.
And the reason why I
stopped was my mental health
was a bit up and down.
And everything I listened
to just sounds like
steel pans in my ears
that it's not soothing.
do you know what I mean.
Certain music. certain films
we watch have an impact
to our emotions and
what we're going through
and it can trigger it.
Swimming can't trigger it.
Going to the gym
can't trigger it.
And neither is jogging
gonna trigger it.
Do you know what I mean?
'Cause it's all life skills.
It's all free spirit.
do you know what I mean?
That part of it plays
a big impact on it.
- Swimming. unlike
for other sports.
can become a life
and death situation.
Whereas the other sports
that are constantly promoted
are just for leisurely purposes.
- Oh Layla.
It's your friend Mr Society.
We don't want to let no one know
about our little secret. do we?
It's just between you and I.
Forget about swimming.
Swimming is no good.
It's not for you.
It's not for Blacks.
Remember. Blacks can't swim.
- Layla.
Layla.
Are you all right there girl?
What you daydreaming?
- Yes.
Sorry. a lot in my
mind. don't mind me.
Never seen this number before.
Answer it for me please.
- Hello. who's calling?
- Hi. Layla this is Frank.
- It's that Frank guy you
spoke to the other day.
Do you want to speak to him?
- Yeah.
Hello?
- Yeah this is Frank.
Yeah.
So yeah. so I wanted
to speak to you
about the swimming programme.
Are you free?
Are you free to chat?
- No. not really.
And to be honest. I don't
wanna waste your time.
- Okay.
Well basically I wanted
to just talk to you about
the swimming programme
with Ettiene.
but also wanted to talk about
your interest in travelling.
- Oh really?
- 'Cause I know
someone who will be.
I can introduce you to him.
They organise these packages
and these travel programmes
all around the world.
Let's meet at a
more convenient time
so that we could have a
conversation about that.
- Okay. then I'll
speak to you tomorrow.
- Great. great. great.
Let's do that.
- Okay. thanks for the call.
- Okay. speak to you later.
Bye.
- Okay. bye.
- What was that about?
You changed your
tune pretty quick.
- Well. he wasn't
being rude or anything.
And like he said. he
wanted us to speak to me
about some other stuff.
So I said. I'll speak
to him tomorrow.
- Okay.
♪ Yeah ♪
♪ What's my name ♪
♪ Smokey Boy baby ♪
♪ I've been on the come up ♪
♪ I'm the man ♪
♪ If you wanna know
me check my ways ♪
♪ I've been running
so much no delay ♪
♪ Smokey Boy baby ♪
♪ We all heading in
a different way ♪
♪ So much pain ♪
♪ Pick up messes on the way ♪
♪ Sometimes stuck
up in my ways ♪
- Fam. this is
sounding cold fam.
Mo. what are you telling me fam?
The bars is cold ain't it?
- That one there.
that's the one fam.
- K. add your bits to it.
Do your magic and there
and when this thing hits
the streets it's done fam.
That's it
- No. don't worry
bro. I got you in it.
Just that I'll add
that to the beat later.
- Whoa.
What'd you mean later fam?
Yor moving mad bro.
finish the beat now fam.
- Fam. why you
always onto me man?
Man needs inspiration. in it?
- What you mean.
finish the beat now fam.
- Man need inspiration in it.
it just doesn't come like that.
- It's not even that fam.
How much more inspiration
do you need fam?
Finish the beat now fam.
- Fresh.
- Hello.
- Hello. is this
Simon. I mean K Frost?
- Who's this?
- Yeah. yeah.
This is Frank.
Can you speak?
- No. right now is
not a good time.
I'm in the studio.
- Okay. I wanna speak to you
about this the swim programme
with Etienne and
also about music.
- Is it?
Yeah. yeah. give me
one second. yeah.
- Hey Sayso. where's
he going fam?
- That man is
never involved fam.
- Chat to your boy. fam.
Come on. man.
- Hello. sorry you
were saying bro?
- So like I was saying.
I wanna speak to you about the
programme around with Etienne
to get you in the
pool and all that.
And also as you're a musician.
have you done any music videos?
- No. just getting
some tracks done.
- You certainly have to.
It's part and parcel
of it nowadays.
it's very. very important.
'cause everything's visual now.
And I know this
award-winning film director
and he does music videos.
I can introduce you to him.
- What. for real?
- Yeah. yeah.
seriously yeah. I can.
- I'm gas.
- I tell you what yeah.
Let's link up.
Let's link up somewhere
we can sit down
and have a conversation
about both the swimming
and the music and I can
actually introduce you to him
so that we could all sit
and have a conversation.
- No. but listen.
ring me tomorrow so
that we link. in it.
- Yeah. Yeah.
Okay. all right.
Yeah. we'll do that.
Yeah. all right.
All right.
Speak to them by later. bye.
- All right. in a little bit.
Yes.
♪ What's my name ♪
♪ Smokey Boy baby ♪
Hey. what's going on
here man. that's my beat.
- What?
Your not serious though fam.
I need this thing finished fam.
You're going on like
its a call center. bro.
- Bro. I was on the phone for
five minutes. five minutes.
And that time you let that
waste man take my beat fam.
- Fam. fam take it easy fam.
Frost you can't be
saying that fam.
You've been on the phone
for like five. 10 minutes.
Mo is paying for
the session fam.
You're taking too long fam.
What. are you gonna come
and finish the beat or not?
- Nah mans. you mans
have been sneaky fam.
You mans have been sneaky fam.
- Fam. no one has
been sneaky fam
just come finish it fam.
- You know what. further
more. keep the beat fam.
Mans out fam.
- Man's moving
emotion and now fam.
Yow Frost.
Yow come man.
- See. that's what
I'm telling you fam.
He's not serious fam.
He's on this swimming thing bro.
- Fam you always
getting on to him fam.
Just make him
finish the beat fam.
Grimz. that's his beat
and he needs to finish it.
So we go let him finish it.
So I'll go chat to him anyways.
- Whatever. man.
♪ Yeah ♪
♪ What's my name ♪
- So Layla. you
know this exhibition
I've been talking to you about.
If you apply it you
probably actually.
matter of fact you
actually will get in
and I'll put in a
good word for you.
You fit that criteria perfectly.
- That sounds really good.
- I've always wanted to
go to the Amazon or Africa
and experience
different cultures.
But one thing I
must let you know
there's a level of
swimming involved so.
I was wondering when this swimming part
was going to happen
- I promised Ettiene
that I will have a
conversation with you
and actually try and convince
you to start swimming
cause you just tried to avoid
swimming as much as possible.
Because he said you can swim.
but you just don't wanna
get into the water.
Can you swim?
- Yes. I can.
- Like swim properly or
are you now learning?
Did something happen?
- No. nothing happened.
I can actually swim.
I like to swim.
I don't mind it.
- So what is the problem?
- Is private. I told you.
- So you know. the
swimming's event
that's happening in
a couple of weeks.
What can I do to
encourage you to swim?
You know. swimming is
very. very important
and I'm pretty
sure. you know that.
it's that the life
safety part of it.
the drowning
prevention part of it.
Just the wellbeing.
And you know. just the
recreational part of it.
The mental health part of it.
it's a very important
thing to do.
And I just don't get it.
I don't understand why you
don't don't do wanna do it.
And the worst thing is
that you're prepared
to sacrifice the expedition
just to not swim.
- I just don't wanna
swim. it's private.
- But yeah. that's the
thing that confuses me.
You don't mind it.
but you won't do it.
There doesn't seem to
be any logic there.
Unless there something
that you're not telling me.
There's something
that you're hiding
and I'm pretty sure it's
hidden under the private.
I just don't get it.
I really don't get it.
I'll help you.
- I ain't doing no
stupid swimming.
- So literally did
our parents talk to us
about swimming or encourage?
I feel like only because it
was like we said. it was.
- In school.
- In school. you had to do it.
It was compulsory
to swim in school.
- But at the end. it's not
like they pushed us too.
That was just like
another thing in school.
School was the main thing.
- It's like PE.
You have to do it.
- So. but it wasn't their focus.
- Yeah.
- And even outside of school.
like I never saw
them swimming either.
So it's not like.
- That's true.
- We went on swimming
trips together as a family.
- When it's family time
at the beach and stuff.
it's like. you sit
take pictures near.
like the kind of shallow ends.
That's it. that's as
far as like our uncles
and aunties were.
But I've never actually seen
any of them swim
properly before.
I don't know about you.
- I don't know.
I think dad can swim or
I've heard him say he can.
- He can't swim.
- Yeah.
- He lying.
- It's not like
something I've seen.
- I think that's the natural
thing of parenthood. isn't it?
You're always pushing
your kid to do things
that are best for
them in the long run
that they're gonna
get annoyed at
but they still need to do them.
And then hopefully in time.
they will look back actually
and appreciate the
way you pushed them.
- I think if your parents.
if my parents never swam.
then I wouldn't swim.
And I just think
it's to do with that.
If you don't. if you never do it
then you'll never
know what it's like.
And it's not something.
if it's not something
that doesn't concern you to do
if you don't feel
the need to do it
then I feel like it
just gets passed down.
It's just like. swimming's
a lot of concern.
- I don't have children.
but if I did I would
say I'll be worried.
I feel like everyone
should know how to swim.
Like for safety. number one.
And like being in water.
like as a child I feel like
you need to know how to swim
for like for yourself
literally. you know safety.
- So in the future with my kids.
I'm definitely gonna
encourage swimming.
I'll get them started.
like how nowadays
people are starting their
toddlers into swimming
just so in case they
fall into the pools.
they can survive and like
float for a couple of minutes.
- I think I would
try and teach them.
So just to have the extra
skill. like coming up.
I don't think like my dad
did the same thing with me.
I heard like some stories
and like in Scotland
of how people learn how to swim.
They're just like. yeah we
just toss the kid in the water
and then just like
start teaching them
at a really young age.
My dad never done that.
- I think it's a
necessary skill to have.
Do you know what I mean?
So obviously in Britain
we don't need to
worry about as much.
but I just feel like one day
your little youth is gonna
end up going to school
and then secondary school
and not some schools
and not they do swimming as like
like part of your
like PE and all that.
Do you know what I mean?
So if he's going there.
last thing I want
my kid to get there
and everyone else is diving
and doing their thing.
And he's sitting
there being like.
oh yeah. I dunno how to swim.
Do you know what I mean?
- So. it's a blessing
if they start young
'cause every time
like I start learning
a new language in it.
once you start young.
like it's more easier to
learn it while you're young.
And like it goes on
and like you can
continue learning
and learning and learning.
- Come in.
Simon. wasn't expecting you.
- Yeah.
I just came in from quick chat.
- Yeah. sure. take a seat.
What's up?
- You know I spoke
to that Frank guy.
He sounds cool though.
- Did you get anything
meaningful out of it?
- He seems cool.
He was but gassing me up
telling me he's got this music
video director link for us.
What I really need
to find out is
you still need me to do
that swimming thing
next week. ain't it?
- Are you gonna actually
turn up this time?
- Do I really need to do it?
- Listen Simon. I've got
this whole programme funded
and it wasn't easy. but I
need numbers to justify it.
And this talk that you keep
saying that Blacks don't swim.
I don't know where
you get this from.
Swimming is extremely good
for your health and wellbeing.
And they're looking for
more ethnic minorities
to join the aquatic industry.
There are so many
opportunities for you
to train as a lifeguard
or swimming instructor
were almost a guaranteed
job at the end of it.
- All right.
All right. I'll do it.
I'll do it.
- Listen. I know your
confidence is low
but this is why I want
you to link with Frank.
He's had to deal with
a few things himself
and he knows what it's like.
So keep in contact
with him. all right.
- All right.
Thank you.
- Hello. Layla.
It's Frank.
Layla.
- Hello?
- Oh. okay.
Listen.
So I'm gonna use this
as an opportunity
to say sorry for what
happened last time.
And like I said.
I should'nt have pushed you.
I should have known
and me of all people
'cause I've been
through the situation
so I should have known.
So yeah.
You there.
- Hello.
- Okay. all right.
So this is what it is.
I'll just say sorry for. yeah.
For what happened last time.
- Okay. bye.
That was awkward.
Okay.
- What about last night?
- Mel. oh my gosh.
That's so embarrassing.
- I know. when she
stood up at the cinema.
it was just. oh my
gosh it was so cringy.
- Bet that was so awkward.
- She'll never ever
leave that down.
I just remind her
about it all the time.
She's really sheepish about it
So funny.
Yes. lots.
- How did that call go?
- Not too well. not too well.
It was kind of awkward actually.
- Oh really?
- I'm not so sure she
was even listening
to half the thing I was saying.
- Dick said that you
were meeting some kids
that you'd been asked to mentor.
- Yes.
So I've been asked to mentor
these two young adults
and the part of a programme
for disadvantaged children.
And one of the. one of the
elements of the programme
is that they swim and
the girl in particular
she just doesn't wanna
get into the water.
- Can she actually swim?
- Yeah. yeah.
She said she can but.
- Will she not tell you why.
- When I. every time I tried
speaking to her about it
it just doesn't go too well.
- She might not wanna tell
you because you're a man
and it's related
to being a woman.
- Why. like what?
- It could be her body or
something to do with their hair.
or maybe it's a time of a month.
- It's time of the month.
Well. if it's the
time of the month
I suggest she sees a doctor
because I didn't think
they last that long.
- It could be something
that's psychologically
affecting her.
A bit like you. before
you learned to swim
maybe something
emotionally or physically
that's giving her
low self confidence
when she has to swim.
- Why are women so complicated?
- They're not.
you're just an idiot.
- Coming from an
African background.
My mom can't swim. at all.
My dad's can swim.
but when I'm looking at properly
my dad's background of growing
up was a bit different.
So he grew up in Uganda and he
was quite exposed to beaches.
And you know what I mean.
those type of things.
And my dad is quite active.
But when I look at it.
It's like. if the parent
doesn't know how to do it
and they don't necessarily
see it as a life skill.
why is it important for them
to reflect on their kids.
to teach their kids?
However. if it was
cooking though.
parents would be teaching
their kids. do you get it?
- Early on in life. you'll
see it as insignificant.
this. that and the
third you think.
oh when am I gonna get
into a pool anyway?
Or when am I gonna be
around water willingly
to have to be in that situation?
But then when you're actually
thrust into the midst of
can I swim or can I not swim?
Those are the moments that
you would wish that somebody
had had the foresight prior
to like get you into it.
- Yeah.
I think the climate has a
big factor to do with it.
I know a lot of people
they'd rather gone
in the swimming pool abroad
and stuff 'cause it's warmer
and stuff like that.
But like even in summer.
I don't see a lot of people
run into the swimming pools.
And I don't see a lot
of my friends saying.
let's go swimming.
You know. I know there's
the light
it's like an open kind of thing
like I know some people do that.
but I just don't
see a lot of people
from the culture run into
swimming pools. ever.
♪ I ain't into the
ride and stuff ♪
♪ I'm just on the
writing stuff ♪
♪ Every track man
touch turn gold ♪
♪ Come like I got
the Midas Touch ♪
♪ Small buzz ♪
♪ Light it up I will
light a man up ♪
♪ If he tries this
husk get shot ♪
♪ By the pen he sent
from my friend ♪
♪ Or the knife and stuff ♪
♪ I ain't into the
ride and stuff ♪
♪ I'm just on the
writing stuff ♪
♪ Every track man
touch turn gold ♪
♪ Come like I got
the Midas Touch ♪
♪ Small buzz ♪
♪ Light it up and
I light a man up ♪
♪ If he tries this
husk get shot ♪
♪ By the
sent from a friend ♪
♪ On the night from stuff ♪
♪ I find it tough to
befriend these vegas ♪
♪ That's why my
circle is small ♪
♪ Focus on dough man
come like bakers ♪
♪ Me and bro bro
be making noise ♪
♪ But the CB is sleeping
so we gonna wake us ♪
♪ Wake up. wake up. ♪
♪ Your baby loves
Jay Blaze... ♪
♪ And the trainers stainless ♪
♪ So I steal that
lifestyle from pay less ♪
♪ Back in the day when
the kid was aimless ♪
♪ Man as in Tesco
Lidl or Savers ♪
♪ Now I get papers lots ♪
♪ I don't leave songs
but I'm on this trading ♪
♪ Man stay catching
these pips and ting ♪
♪ No way I'm catching no cases ♪
♪ Can't do I'm dirty with Bummy cause she
got high expectations ♪
♪ It's straining
but I embrace it ♪
♪ I was raised well
what can I expect ♪
♪ It could have gone left ___ ♪
♪ I see is mans
growing up in packs ♪
♪ But I'm a me so I'm
trying to do things right ♪
♪ And keep writing
and I won't rest ♪
♪ No. no ♪
♪ Till the day I
accept I'm the best ♪
♪ They respect when
I say it with chest ♪
♪ Believe ♪
♪ I ain't in the
ride and stuff ♪
♪ I'm just in the
writing stuff ♪
♪ Every track man
touch turn gold ♪
♪ Come like I got
the Midas Touch ♪
♪ Small buzz ♪
♪ Light it up. I
will light a man up ♪
♪ If he tries this
husk get shot ♪
♪ By the pen he
sent from a friend ♪
♪ On the night and stuff ♪
- Yow GG.
Yow my G. jump on the car fam.
- I'm in a rush in it.
- Hey come out your feelings
bro. get in the car man.
♪ None of that
violence got life ♪
♪ It's like youth don't
care about lives ♪
♪ And I when them man
dem gonna just pattern ♪
♪ And stop stabbing them and
putting these lives down. ♪
♪ We've all lost
bros to the road ♪
♪ Is enough their
mothers can't cuddle ♪
- Yow G. you always got
something to say you know.
And we go way back fam.
- Exactly fam man.
Relax fam.
This tune here. this tune
here will make us blow fam.
- That's what I'm saying fam.
And listen. the beat is
still there for you in there
if you want it.
Now stop acting up fam.
Come on let's do this thing fam.
- Yeah safe. safe. safe.
But I'm actually
in a rush though.
We're meant to meet Frank.
He's saying he's got a
music video director for us.
- For real?
- Yeah. I'm not even joking.
You might as much
as a ride with me.
Fam if I'm having
anything to do with music.
I'm down fam.
Come on lets roll out for me.
You down?
- I don't even
know. you know fam.
- Fam what are you
telling me fam.
Come on man it's music
related. ain't it?
So let's try and get
this thing pattern.
- Yeah. I hear that. still
say no more man. roll still.
- Fam. Frost we're
rolling with you still.
♪ I'm a me so I'm trying
doing things right ♪
♪ And keep writing
and I won't rest ♪
♪ Nope. Nope. ♪
♪ Till the day I
accept I'm the best ♪
♪ They respect when
I say with chest. ♪
♪ Believe ♪
♪ I ain't in the
ride and stuff ♪
♪ I'm just in the
writing stuff ♪
♪ Every track man turn to gold ♪
♪ Come like I got
the Milas touch ♪
♪ Small buzz ♪
♪ Light it up I will
light a man up ♪
♪ If he tries this
husk get shot ♪
♪ By sent from a friend
or the knife and stuff ♪
♪ I ain't into the
ride and stuff ♪
♪ I'm just on the
writing stuff ♪
♪ Every track man
touch turn gold ♪
♪ Come like I got
the Midas touch ♪
♪ Small buzz ♪
♪ Light it up I will
light a man up ♪
♪ If he tries this
husk get shot ♪
♪ By the sent from a friend ♪
♪ On the knife and staff ♪
♪ None of that
violence that life ♪
♪ It's like youths
don't care about lives ♪
♪ When the man dem
gonna just pattern ♪
♪ And stop stabbing and
putting these lives down ♪
♪ We've all lost
bros to the road ♪
♪ It's enough their mothers
can't cuddle their child now ♪
♪ Everyone is fixed
in revenging ends ♪
♪ And I'm worried
about my town ♪
♪ No way my child being
raised in the London ♪
♪ Breaking down boxes like AJ ♪
♪ Pattern a wage and
wait till pay day ♪
♪ Get it ♪
♪ If you need P or you want
them G's make it work ♪
♪ Culture is harmful
set an example ♪
♪ To the youth that
made them learn ♪
- Hi. hello.
What can I offer you to drink?
- Just water please.
Three waters please.
- No problem.
- Thank you.
Well thank you for coming.
thank you for coming down.
That's my boy Sayso and Mo.
- Don't I see you somewhere.
I think I've seen
you somewhere before.
- I swear your the
same brother fam.
- Yeah. I remember you
a while back wearing
that life jacket.
I remember yeah.
Those days. I've tried to
put those days behind me.
Those are the days
whereby I used to wear
the life jacket everywhere I go.
- So you all know
each other. yeah.
- Yeah. yeah we've met.
We've had a chat.
we've had a chat yeah.
I used to go everywhere.
I used to wear a life
jacket everywhere I go.
- Hold on. are you
the same brother
that's gonna teach
my man how to swim?
- I'm not teaching
him how to swim.
I'm just trying to
encourage him to swim.
- Well like a mentor thing.
- That's right. yeah.
And that's. what's
makes me a great mentor
because I am only now
after all these years
I have now learning how to swim.
- So what's this all about?
Is it just the swimming?
- But basically
I promise Ettiene
that I'll speak with
you about the gala.
getting into the water
but there's an issue.
There seem to be a
bigger issue about you.
- All right. before
you go further.
yow Frost can you tell my man
what your situation is though?
- Tell him fam. come on.
- Come on.
- I can't say.
- Tell him fam.
- No man. don't
be acting up man.
just show him. it's nothing man.
you're worried over
nothing fam. come on.
- I'm clearly missing something.
- Show it bro.
- It's my feet. ain't it.
Why are you guys
laughing for man?
- No. no. no.
I'm not laughing at you.
Now when you say feet. 'cause
I have a similar problem.
Look at my feet.
It's like a boat.
- Frank. why do Black
people need swimming?
- It's such an important thing.
You know. swimming is
such an important thing
from a life safety perspective.
from a recreational perspective
and the mental health.
It's such. it's one of the
best formal exercise out there.
You have to do it.
And every excuse you
could possibly give
for not wanting to
learn how not to swim
or wanted to swim. I've done it.
And we've got this gala thing.
this thing happening and
in a couple of weeks time
and Ettiene is expecting
you to be there.
And are you guys coming.
any of you coming?
- I'm just about the
music right now though.
- I think we spoke about music.
And then I'll tell you
about this music director.
this award winning
music director.
- I'm sold fam I'm
coming. Frost. you down?
- Yeah. mans on it.
- Mo. down?
- Don't know man.
- Mo. come on.
- For the music.
- Now let's talk
about the music.
Let's talk about this
♪ Represent just like ♪
♪ Disproportionately Black ♪
♪ Run me off the track ♪
♪ My Black friends don't swim ♪
♪ My White friends too keen ♪
- You know what. it does
the number surprises me.
but like I'm not surprised
that Black people
like that much Black
people don't swim.
But the number is like a lot.
Like that's high.
I can't believe that.
- I didn't know first of all.
- I didn't know.
Like I've always heard
the thing you know.
blacks can't swim. Black
people aren't good at swimming
or don't want to swim.
But when you're talking
about the percent.
the actual stats.
I never knew that.
- So yeah. after
hearing those figures.
it's always. you
know the running joke
of Black people who can't swim.
I was always aware of that
but it's really
shocking and surprising
to know that it's
that many Black people
who do not swim at all.
- It's such a high figure.
And I. you know what.
I'm not surprised.
I'm not honestly surprised.
I am surprised it is so high
but I'm just not surprised
because like there's
something where black people
and water and like swimming.
it just doesn't go together.
do you know what I mean?
- I'm not gonna lie to you.
It doesn't. it doesn't. none
of us really liked swimming.
But they're strong swimmers
like Black swimmers out there.
But like. like not all of them.
Like if you're
looking at majority.
if you're looking
at those numbers.
it's like different
to how you would see
like white. Caucasians.
I mean. Latinos. Asians.
like we just don't.
We ain't got the numbers
on our side on our side.
- Thinking about it
now like the friends
that we've went swimming with
I'd say are similar to us.
We've got friends that
have fun in water.
You know. there's kind of difference of
having fun in water
than actually
swimming. you know.
Like if we were in a situation
where we had to swim.
I'd be like we wouldn't
be able to do that.
- A small number.
- Yeah. yeah a small number.
- Or a confident team.
And that kind of matches up
with this statistic then.
'Cause when you think of
all how big our group is
and then maybe it's just two man
- Yeah. It's actually
weird water.
- It's about 80% of a group.
- Yeah.
- That's weird how that
actually works out.
- Hey Layla.
I was just passing.
- Hey come in.
- Thank you.
- I was just passing. you
know. normally I'd phone.
I don't like anybody passing
when they don't phone.
But I was just in the area
so I thought I come and say hey.
- Sure. nice to see you.
I haven't seen you in ages.
- I know.
Ooh. let's see the nails.
Very nice.
What's that?
Is that?
What colour is that?
- Sherlock.
- Oh shelloc. it's expensive.
- Its worth it.
- Don't even look at my nails.
I've been trying to do some
gardening but is all good.
Oh. I saw Fiona the other day.
Did you?
- We spoke about hair for ages.
She was just like. what
products should I use?
My hair is getting dry.
You know. the kind of
stuff we talk about.
In fact talking about hair.
like I need to talk to
you about mine as well.
It's getting long.
- It is.
Let me see. turn around.
It is. it's looking
healthy as well.
you're looking after it.
- I'm trying.
I'm thinking of getting locs.
- But?
- It's just the maintaining
part of it like.
I feel like I should
do it in due time.
- So how's swimming.
You've been for awhile.
- I haven't been in awhile.
- I thought you like swimming.
I do but.
- But
- Hmm. it's just I
have stretch marks.
- Oh. stretch marks.
Yeah. it's nothing bad to
worry about in front of that.
- None of my friends
have it though.
- You think none of your
friends has got them.
trust me. every
girl in some point
that you ask her she's
gonna get stretch marks.
So she's got stretch marks.
Maybe you just can't see them.
Sometimes it's on your
chest. it's on your bum.
wherever you start filing out.
So many of things that us women
have to go through sometimes
but it's nothing bad.
There's nothing to
really worry about.
- I don't know.
Do you have them?
- Layla?
My gosh.
Yes I do.
Trust me.
I'm just laughing
because it just totally reminds
me of when I was younger.
I was just like you.
I used to go
swimming all the time
and then just out of no where
I just started getting stretch
marks on my bum and my thighs
and I was like ahh.
And there was like no
Black girls around.
So can you even. you know.
go and confide in them
or ask their advice.
But eventually I got over it.
And one of the major things was
I went out and I
found this swimsuit.
I still remember it
had stripes on it.
It was navy blue. but
it had shorts on it.
And I covered all
the stretch marks.
I was that was me.
I was back in the pool.
I was just like. yeah.
So once I took care
of that. that was it.
Nothing was holding me back.
I was just straight
back in there.
- Oh my days.
A bodysuit.
- You can get
anything these days.
Trust me. there's so many
options out there now
and there's like two pieces.
You can get shorts. so you
can get three quarter length.
You can even get
full body suits.
Cause there's people
who go swimming
and they don't want to
show any of their body.
So you can actually
get a full covering.
- Oh my days. I've
got to get one.
- You need to.
I mean. they're a
bit more expensive.
but yeah it's totally worth it.
- Yeah.
In fact. I've got
something coming up.
I'm glad we had
this conversation.
- I'm glad to hear it.
But you know. like on a
more serious note though.
just never let
society dictate to you
where it is that you wanna do.
Don't let society dictate
what's right and what's wrong.
Everybody's got to do what
it is. you know what I mean?
But you're a really good swimmer
so you should never let
things hold you back.
You know. you've got
things that you wanna do.
There's things that
you wanna achieve
so make sure that nothing
holds you back from that.
And you'll be good.
- Thanks Julia.
You always say the
right things to me.
- You know I've been
through so much stuff.
but you know what?
I can not stop for long. but
I'm glad we had this chat.
I'm gonna get to get going.
Give me a hug.
Right. make sure you call
me if there's anything
you wanna speak about. okay?
- Okay.
Thank you.
- No problem.
- Hey Julia. how you doing?
- Yeah. so I've just
spoken to Layla.
We sat down. we had a
really good chat actually.
- Oh. whoa. awesome.
That is awesome.
- She told me about her issue.
I gave her some advice.
so she's feeling
much better about it.
So I think everything
will be all right.
- I just can't wait
to speak to her.
- But listen. Frank. don't
say anything to her yet.
Just let her come to you.
- Yeah I get it.
I understand. I understand.
- Okay. cool.
All right. yeah say
hi to Jigs for me
and I'll catch you
guys soon. all right?
- Yeah. I'll send my love.
Cheers. bye.
All right.
Okay.
Speak to you later.
Bye-bye
- See. it's actually
quite proven
that periods just kind of.
your body kind of stops
when you're in water.
Like it doesn't flow as heavy.
Yeah. I didn't know
that until recently.
But your body doesn't
flow as heavily.
people don't know that.
And people think. oh
no. my periods come out.
I don't wanna go swimming.
But then it's like. if it's not
your period. it's your hair.
If it's not your
hair. it's your gut.
If it's not your gut.
it's your stretch marks.
If it's not your stretch
marks it's something else.
And I feel like
there's always a but.
- Yes. I definitely feel like.
what is stopping Black
girls from swimming
is things like body appreciation
things like stretch marks
and how they view themselves and maybe how
society makes them feel about themselves.
And like from a young age you're
like what's going on around you
and on your body.
So I feel like all black
girls like avoid it
or even if they do go swimming
or like go to the beach
or like covered up maybe.
and like didn't want to
like show too much and.
- I don't wanna go in the
water and got my hair wet.
And I suffered
from eczema myself.
So when I go in the
water and I come out.
all my cream that I've
put on in the morning.
all comes up in the pool.
Sometimes that can be
a bit embarrassing.
Cause you're just
seeing like a cloud.
It looks like I'm
dirty. but it's not.
It's just my cream coming off.
Cause quite thick in it.
Cause I go eczema.
So my cream will come off
and I've come out
now my skin is great.
It looks like I've never
creamed in a month.
Do you know what I mean?
So if I ain't got the right
cream with me at the time.
it's just. it's a lot
of work just for us
to go in that water sometimes.
So especially that
when I'm on holiday.
if it's not for my
partner. I'm not bothering.
I'm looking nice.
I feel good.
I'm happy.
I get in the water.
And now I've got to be
thinking about my hair.
I've got to be thinking about
coming out. creaming my skin.
Sometimes you can't
even just creamy skin.
You need to have actual shower.
Do you know what I mean.
to wash off the chlorine.
all the chemicals.
All the other dirty stuff
that's in the water.
So sometimes it can
really be a lot of hustle
more than what people think.
- Yeah. 'cause you feel like
mainly like the White girls
they're very like slim.
the really skinny.
So you look and you think.
okay. I don't look like that.
So I guess it's
kind of different.
But still I don't
personally think
that should stop
you from swimming
because everyone's
different obviously.
Not everyone's gonna
be like really skinny.
- Doesn't matter what
other people look like.
It doesn't matter
what other people say.
You are beautiful.
These beauty standards.
it doesn't matter
because whoever made them
is ridiculous anyway.
And no one said that that
was the body to have.
And you just need
to love yourself
and you need to be
confident in your own body.
in your own skin.
And then you start to realise
that what people
say doesn't matter
because you know
you love yourself
and you know that your opinion
is the one that matters.
No one else's opinion matters.
- You guys saying.
anyone want pizza fam?
- No G.
- What. no one fam?
- What's in it though?
- This is chicken.
beef. sweet corn fam.
- I don't eat beef.
I don't eat beef.
- Since when?
- The other day still.
I don't eat beef.
Told you fam.
Mans been watching the news
and watching what's
going on fam.
do your research fam.
- Yeah. what's that got
to do with my pizza fam?
- Fam. what'd you think?
Whatever they eat. you eat.
- Meat is meat.
Food is food.
- Yeah but. I hear you.
You can offer my man then.
Say no more. you're
looking hungry you still.
- I won't say no.
- Man then hungry.
That looks nice though.
- That's what your
missing out on.
- Man is gassed you now.
Fam. when this tape
drops. it's gonna be fire.
Frost is on his job today.
Fam is been on it.
- Fam. trust I got to say bro
hard fam. hard fam.
- This shit is
gonna be done fam.
Once you link up with the
producer with the film director.
- Wait. wait.
What film director?
- Frank is linking us up
for this film director.
He said. if we do
this swimming thing.
he's gonna hook us up with
the nice film director.
- Boy hold on. hold on.
What are you talking about?
What film director is this?
And since then. could you swim?
- Don't watch that. it's
only for the swimmers
One. two. three.
the swimmers fam
Are you down to swim?
- Yeah. swimming is long man.
I'm not trying to swim.
You might as well just bring
me into the music thing.
- We can't bring you in fam.
Everyone go into the
swim thing only bro.
- That's what I'm
telling you fam.
- But I can't swim though.
- You can still get involved
fam for non-swimmers as well.
Are you down?
Fam you should be
down man. come on G.
- We can do the swimming thing.
- That's what I'm saying.
Fam your always
honest. all the time.
- ain't nothing man.
- I just say. you know. get
in the pool. see how you feel.
But the one thing I
say. when we're someone
who doesn't know
how to do something.
I say get comfortable
with what you're doing
and then I'll give them tips.
Like maybe you got to do
this when you're swimming
and they do it.
And I'm like.
okay. this is cool.
If you can't do it.
you can't do it.
If you could do it. that you try
and push yourself a little
bit harder every single time.
- One thing like feeling
free in the water is like.
every day you wake up I feel
like you have something to do.
You have something to prove.
but when in water there's
no one to tell you.
you have to do this.
You literally just explore.
- It's once you get
to a certain age
once someone tells you something
like it gives you an
option to do something
you don't wanna do. you're
just not gonna do it.
Like it's like trying teach
someone to eat vegetables at 16.
It's just not gonna happen.
But if they've eaten it from
the age of six or even just 10.
like they're gonna just
naturally. yeah like that.
that's fine. it's not an issue.
But you try and teach a 16
year old to eat vegetables.
it's just not gonna work.
So you just got
promoted from young
and try and bring
them to the fun places
where they can learn how to swim
or you need to learn how to swim
so you can go to
these fun places.
- You know. we're
in a generation
for we have so much opportunity
and so much access
to so many resources.
And if that's something you're
interested in and it's there.
take it while you have it.
And you know. kind of feel
your way through that water.
And in future.
you might be giving
yourself more opportunities
just in life in general
having learned something.
I didn't know. another
way by doing something
that people said you could
never. you never could do.
It encourages you in other
places and other aspects of life
that as Black people. places
we were never meant to be
- Most people like.
especially now like there's
hardly any jobs out there
like being a lifeguard. like
even like. what's it called?
Like. if you want to like work
on planes and stuff like that
like air hostess or
anything like that.
Like you need swimming as
part of your like skills
like to have those jobs.
So it would. it's
always a blessing.
You never know.
- I've have actually
tried to look
into being a lifeguard in the
past when I was a bit younger.
And then I saw in
the description.
you have to know how to
dive and hold your breath
and all of that.
And I just said.
no. no. no. no. no.
It's not that I would
never take a career in it.
But the feeling that
I get in the water.
it's just I know it's
never gonna change.
'Cause it's never changed
from when I was younger.
- If I'm speaking to someone
that doesn't know how to swim
or it's not like a
thing in their life
I would like pass on a
lot of like the facts
you just told me that this
could save your life one day.
So like. you need to like
try and look into at least
because like 85% of us
don't swim and you can like.
you can just. you can
die from it not knowing.
like it's a big deal man. like.
- I be like. bro. if you got
a learner you got to do it
because the end of the
day. like your gonna travel
and like do these things.
I think in the UK. we get lucky
because obviously like
if you're Caribbean
or something like that
or even African and that.
Like that's what surprising
with these stats as well.
And even abroad is
probably the same.
where it's like you're
gonna be going into the sea.
You gonna be
swimming in the sea.
You gonna be on boats.
It's gonna be crossing
to other bits.
You know what I mean?
Like the last thing
I'll be bricking myself
if I was on that boat
crossing these bits
and I didn't know how to swim.
- It's never too late.
It's never too late.
You know what?
You might wanna swim now.
And you might not be able to.
Kids are very much at the
mercy of their circumstances
and their environment.
And even though I'm
not a parent yet.
I feel so much for your
kid wanting to do things
then having dreams and not
being able to give that to them.
I can only imagine how
heartbreaking that must be.
So I'm not gonna say now that
you know the best thing
you would do is to go
and nag your parents
and say yeah.
I wanna swim. I wanna swim.
make it happen for me.
If I'm sure if they could
make it happen they would.
- But if anyone asked me
like. is it worth doing
or is it worth trying
to be an Olympic swimmer
and stuff like that?
I would push them to do it.
♪ Blacks Can't swim ♪
♪ Straight to the deep end ♪
♪ I've given my details ♪
♪ Everyone needs help ♪
♪ Everyone needs friends ♪
♪ But be careful who
you play around ♪
♪ Get you lost.
then get you found ♪
♪ I'm the King ♪
- Honestly Frank. I
don't know what to say.
But thank you so much.
I mean there all there
waiting to get in.
I mean. I don't know how
you did it but somehow.
- I was determined
to make it happen.
And then although
it was a journey
and shall I say it's
been a challenge.
but I was determined
to make it happen.
And I was prepared to
pull out every stops
to get them in there.
But yeah. I knew it was
gonna happen anyway.
So 'cause I've been through it.
So I've been through it.
So I knew what they were feeling
and knew what they
were going to throw.
And. but yeah. I'm so happy
that they're actually
decided to get into the water
and yeah.
But. hold on.
Something I need to
speak to you about.
There's a huge career potential
within their particular path.
- You really think so.
- Yeah. there's huge. you know.
but we'll talk about that one.
we'll have a proper
conversation about that one.
- Yes sure.
- Okay.
Right now. I need to get in
there and sort things out.
But yeah. but we'll chat.
- All right.
♪ Straight into the deep end ♪
♪ I've give my details ♪
♪ Everyone needs help ♪
♪ Everyone needs friends ♪
♪ But be careful who
you play around ♪
♪ Get you lost then
get you found ♪
- I'm so glad you came.
Really. really glad.
- Thank you.
- I'm very proud you.
I'm sorry about
last time as well.
- No. no. don't worry
about it. don't worry.
It's all part of the journey.
I'll see you soon.
See you in a minute.
♪ Straight to the deep end ♪
♪ I'll give my details ♪
♪ Everyone needs help ♪
♪ Everyone needs friends ♪
♪ But be careful who
you play around ♪
♪ Straight to the deep end ♪
So thank you very. very.
very much for coming
to the second edition of
the Swim Ting Workshop.
I'm really pleased to
see all your faces.
See some new faces as well.
Yeah. really. really. thank you.
It's been a journey.
A bit of a challenging
journey in some cases
but it's something
I wanted to do
and Ettiene is gonna be
very. very. proud of you guys
for making this.
So for those that
don't know my story.
I only now just
learn how to swim.
I only started learning how
to swim a couple of years ago.
So I was brought up
in an environment
whereby water safety meant
stay away from the water
and you will not drown.
But we all know that
that's not possible
in this current day and age
but we all go on
holidays and stuff.
And yeah so it's water safety
is very. very. important.
It got to a point whereby
I couldn't do it anymore.
So I decided to
confront my fears.
address the stereotypes
and dispel the myths
and hence learn how to swim.
And it's glad because I could
use my journey and my story
to encourage other people to
learn how to swim as well.
There's also the
recreational part of it.
the enjoyment part of it.
the pleasurable part of it.
And also there's so much
career potential in aquatics.
And this is something they
should really. really consider.
More importantly. the
enjoyment part of it.
So we're here to
enjoy ourselves.
So let's get in the
pool and splash around
and have some fun.
♪ The sequel ♪
♪ Ed Accura in the house ♪
♪ So I made a film called
"Black Can't Swim" ♪
♪ Highlighting the
generation-long issue ♪
♪ Due to a disproportionate
amount of black people ♪
♪ That do not swim ♪
♪ Made it possible
for the whole world ♪
♪ To talk about the issue ♪
♪ Which previously was
uncomfortable to talk about ♪
♪ A generation that
has continuously ♪
♪ been precluded from aquatics ♪
♪ 95% of black adults ♪
♪ And 80% of black children
in England do not swim ♪
♪ And I'm guessing the figures
are not much better globally ♪
♪ We've heard the
reasons and excuses ♪
♪ As to why we do not swim ♪
♪ I used most of them myself ♪
♪ And also created a few
additions in the process. ♪
♪ How many people living all
their life without swimming ♪
♪ Would actually learn how
to swim later in life ♪
♪ So how do we break the cycle ♪
♪ Create role models ♪
♪ Highlight their
aquatic career pathway ♪
♪ Make swimming more relatable ♪
♪ The sequence to
Black Can't Swim ♪
♪ Baby I'll splash.
splash for you ♪
♪ Baby I'll splash
♪ Sitting by the pool
feeling so cool ♪
♪ Splash splash splash ♪
♪ They say blacks can't swim ♪
♪ That's okay take my time
when I splash. splash. splash ♪
♪ They say Blacks can't swim ♪
♪ Siting by the pool ♪
♪ Feeling so cool ♪
♪ Splash. splash. splash ♪
♪ They say Blacks can't swim ♪
♪ That's okay take my time
when I splash splash splash ♪
♪ They say Blacks can't swim ♪
♪ Straight to the deep end ♪
♪ I'll give my details ♪
♪ Everyone needs help ♪
♪ Everyone needs friends ♪
♪ But be careful who
you play around ♪
♪ Get you lost
and get you find ♪
♪ I'm the king ♪
♪ You know I'm
holding the crown ♪
♪ Baby I'll splash
splash for you ♪
♪ In the pool. feeling cool ♪
♪ Be strong. be you. play safe ♪
♪ Be yourself. be
calm. be true ♪
♪ Straight to the deep end ♪
♪ I'll give my details ♪
♪ Everyone need help ♪
♪ Everyone needs friends ♪
♪ But be careful of who ♪
- So you said you
won't swim because of your hair.
Would you at least think about?
♪ Thought about it. thought
about it. thought about it ♪
♪ I thought about it. thought
♪ No. no. no. no ♪
about it. thought about it ♪
♪ I thought about it. thought
♪ No. no. no. no ♪